Syllabus for BIOL-1: General Biology

College of the Redwoods 

Course Information

Semester & Year: Spring 2026
Course ID and Section number: BIOL-1-D8901 (058901)
Instructor's name: Daniel Friedman
Contact: Contact the instructor through Canvas.
Day and time of required meetings: 
  - Lecture – Monday 05:30PM - 08:40PM
  - Lab - Wednesday 05:30PM - 08:40PM
Location: Pelican Bay D Yard
Number of exams: 4
Course units: 4

Catalog Description

An introductory course in life science dealing with basic biological concepts including molecular and cell biology, metabolism, heredity, evolution, ecology, natural history, and biodiversity. 

Course Student Learning Outcomes

Apply the process of science to critically evaluate observable biological phenomenon.
Describe attributes of life and explain how cells fulfill these characteristics.
Relate the mechanisms of evolutionary change to the production of biological diversity.

Prerequisites/Corequisites/Recommended Preparation

None

Educational Accessibility & Support

College of the Redwoods is committed to providing reasonable accommodations for qualified students who could benefit from additional educational support and services. You may qualify if you have a physical, mental, sensory, or intellectual condition which causes you to struggle academically, including but not limited to:

Mental health conditions such as depression, anxiety, PTSD, bipolar disorder, and ADHD
Common ailments such as arthritis, asthma, diabetes, autoimmune disorders, and diseases
Temporary impairments such as a broken bone, recovery from significant surgery, or a pregnancy-related disability
A learning disability (such as dyslexia, reading comprehension), intellectual disability, autism, or acquired brain injury
Vision, hearing, or mobility challenges

Available services include extended test time, quiet testing environments, tutoring, counseling and advising, alternate formats of materials (such as audio books or E-texts), assistive technology, on-campus transportation, and more. If you believe you might benefit from disability- or health-related services and accommodations, please contact Disability Services and Programs for Students (DSPS). If you are unsure whether you qualify, please contact DSPS for a consultation: dsps@redwoods.edu.

Student Support Services

Good information and clear communication about your needs will help you be successful. Please let your instructor know about any specific challenges or technology limitations that might affect your participation in class. College of the Redwoods wants every student to be successful.

Academic Dishonesty

In the academic community, the high value placed on truth implies a corresponding intolerance of scholastic dishonesty. In cases involving academic dishonesty, determination of the grade and of the student's status in the course is left primarily to the discretion of the faculty member. In such cases, where the instructor determines that a student has demonstrated academic dishonesty, the student may receive a failing grade for the assignment and/or exam and may be reported to the Chief Student Services Officer or designee.

Respect and Disruptive Behavior

We expect a respectful and inclusive learning environment. Student behavior or speech that disrupts the instructional setting will not be tolerated. Disruptive conduct may include, but is not limited to: unwarranted interruptions; failure to adhere to instructor's directions; vulgar or obscene language; slurs or other forms of intimidation; and physically or verbally abusive behavior. The student may be reported to the Chief Student Services Officer or designee. Additional information about the rights and responsibilities of students, Board policies, and administrative procedures is located in the 2023-2024 College Catalog and CR Board and Administrative Policies.